---
layout: post
title: Website woes
date: 2026-03-18 10:16 -0400
categories: [web design]
---

I don't know who to blame...Git, Github, Ruby, Jekyll, Chirpy, or me.  Most likely a combination of all the above.

I used to be quite well versed in web design...twenty-five years ago.  Yea that gives you a good idea.  So when I decided to start making a blog or site or whatever I was a bit lost.  I knew I didn't want to deal with Squarespace and its ilk....sounds good on paper but in practice.... and also didn't really want to have to deal with a host that constantly changes their pricing or just dies out of no where.

So when I saw Github allows some limited web hosting I jumped on board.  I learned what Jekyll was, decided upon the Chirpy theme as it looked close to what I wanted, and said "this'll be easy."  Step by step instructions and everything.

Man...was that wrong.  Just getting it setup was a chore.  Then figuring out how to even get github to stop throwing errors.  Turns out, if you don't specify a URL in certain spots, even when you've no URL to put there, it'll throw an error.  But the error makes no sense...it screams about a missing href reference...which doesn't help when Chirpy/Jekyll handles all the HTML behind the scenes.  And, of course, it throws the error on the wrong page for it.

So finally I get everything setup and I decide to commit and git decides "nah.  You've a file I don't wanna merge.  Have fun figuring out which."

I think I finally figured out most of the issues...and the git decides it also doesn't want to connect to github with my very correct credentials.

Just annoying.  For what is meant to be a little side project to log all my musing and hobbies this has become a bit of a hassle.  Hopefully everything now is correct and I can just commit new pages as needbe instead of whatever keeps happening.

